# Black.AI Engineering Design Challenge
## Design Considerations
As the part number for the PSU was included in the design challenge, it was fairly easy to find the datasheet and 
installation manual for the CUS30M-12 PSU after a quick google search. The datasheet and installation manual were used to direct some of 
the major design considerations for the enclosure. Below is a list of all design considerations and the reasoning behind them.

**1. Enclosure Manufacturing Considerations**
  * From the beginning it was decided that 3D printing would be chosen as the method of manufacturing for the PSU enclosure. 3D printing is generally the cheapest method for prototyping and manufacturing small quantities of a CAD model. As the enclosure would be housing a power supply, which emits heat, it was important to consider what materials could be used for the print. From the CUS30M-12 datasheet, the operating temperature of the device is -20 degrees Celsius to 70 degrees Celsius. As this is the range of temperature the device can operate safely in, it was assumed that the device would dissipate far less than the maximum operating temperature, in this case 70 degrees. Thus if the material of the enclosure was rated to the maximum operating temperature of the device, 70 degrees, it would be sufficient to handle whatever temperature the PSU would dissipate. Some of the most common materials used in Fused Deposition Modelling (FDM) printers such as PLA or ABS have heat resistances between 70 and 80 degrees Celsius. Thus either of these would be suitable for the design.
  
**2. Enclosure Dimensions**
  * The installation manual has information regarding the mounting of the PSU in an enclosure. Most of these requirements are for the device to meet EMC, Isolation, Withstand Voltage, and Cooling requirements (some of which are not required for use in an insulated plastic enclosure). Even so it was decided to follow these mounting requirements so that if needed the enclosure could be made from steel. From the data sheet the PSU was required to be mounted on 8mm spacers from the bottom of the enclosure, with 4mm between the sides and top of the PSU. Thus included in the design were four 8mm tall spacers with screw holes that were designed to line up with the screw holes on the PCB. The spacers were designed with a bevelled surface to reduce the risk of them breaking off under the pressure of the screw. 
  * It was a design requirement that the enclosure be designed for ease of mounting on walls or overhead cable trays. Larger screw holes were designed into the bottom of the enclosure to allow for this. The screw holes were designed for slightly larger screws as they would be taking the whole weight of the enclosure. (Read more on Version 1 and 2 of the design model below). 
  
**3. Cable Holes**
  * It was necessary to include a hole in either end of the enclosure to allow for the input and output cables. From the datasheet, the input current at 230VAC is 0.4A with a maximum inrush current of 60A. To allow for this it was decided to allow for a double insulated (any exposed 240V connection requires double insulation) flexible cable with two 2.5mm<sup>2</sup> cores. The diameter of this cable is around 10mm however the input cable hole was chosen to be 12mm to allow for a rubber grommet if needed. 
  * The hole for the output cable would need to have 4 cores, With a maximum current of 2.5A at 12V. Under this consideration it was decided that an allowance for a 4 core 1mm<sup>2</sup> flex cable with a diameter of 8mm would be sufficient. Allowance for a rubber grommet for this hole was also considered necessary, thus the hole was designed to be 10mm in diameter.
  
**4. Cooling**
  * From the datasheet, the PSU is convection cooled, meaning it cools by dissipating heat in the medium around it. As the medium around this PSU is air, some ventilation would be required to allow the hot air to escape the enclosure. Ventilation was included in the design in the form on 6 vent holes on the sides of the enclosure, three on each.

**5. Model Versions, Final Material and Cost**
  * The original model, Version 1, was of a larger overall design to allow some convenience when attaching the enclosure to a wall or cable tray. The wall mounting holes were in a position where they could be accessed while the PSU was attached to its mounting spacers. However after receiving quotes for this particular enclosure, the cheapest quote that was provided was $128, which is $38 over budget. Thus a new model, Version 2, was designed taking in the minimum requirements for spacing from the datasheet. However the enclosure now has to be fixed to the wall before the PSU can be mounted into the enclosure. This new design reduced the cost of the build to exactly $90, but some of the original installer friendliness had to be removed. The best quote ($90) that was found was from Zeal 3D Printing located in Melbourne with a lead time of 3-4 working days, which meets all the requirements of the design challenge. The models are labelled V1 and V2 for the old and new models respectively. 
  
